---
layout: post
title:  "Jekyll cheat sheet"
summary: "Some quick tips and tricks I've learned about Jekyll and GitHub Pages."
date:   2021-01-24 16:34:00 -0800
categories: all
---

### jekyll v4 configuration

- The files inside the `_posts` folder must have the following format:
  ```
    yyyy-mm-dd-name-with-dashes.md
  ```
  Note: Do not use underscore or they are not detected.
- Changes in `_config.yml` need the `jekyll serve` process to be stopped and restarted.
- Changes in `*.html` or `*.md` files don't need restarting - they get automatically detected and reloaded.
- At the time of creating this post, the GitHub docker container requires bundler:2.1.4 installed. Make sure you configure your Gemfiles using that version, of the CI will fail.
- Dependencies are installed into gem using `gem install <packageName>` and then `bundler add <packageName>` includes it in your project's Gemfile.
- To autoreload the browser tab showing your blog, without having to kill the server, run:
  ```
  gem uninstall eventmachine
  gem install eventmachine --platform ruby
  ```
- Use this command to turn on the web server: `jekyll serve --livereload --incremental`
- It's better to develop and upload your site from Linux than Windows, because GitHub Pages use an Ubuntu docker container.
- `jekyll-paginate-v2` is not supported by GitHub Pages. Use [v1 instead](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/pagination/) which is not being actively developed or maintained, but at least works.

### jekyll-paginate-v2

No point in trying to make this work because it is not supported by GitHub Pages. But here is what I learned about it, in case it ever gets support:

- Expects to see `index.md` with the front matter:
  ```yml
    pagination:
      enabled: true
  ```
- The `Gemfile` needs to indicate the plugin inside the `:jekyll_plugins` group loop:
  ```ruby
    group :jekyll_plugins do
      gem "jekyll-paginate-v2", ">= 3.0"
      gem "jekyll-feed"
    end
  ```
- The `_config.yml` file needs to enable the plugin with at least these options:
  ```yml
    plugins:
      - jekyll-paginate-v2

    pagination:
      enabled: true
  ```
- To see pagination verbose info when serving jekyll, enable debugging:
  ```yml
    pagination:
      debug: true
  ```


## Resources

Some useful resources I found when learning how to configure this blog:

- [How to Create a Blog Using Jekyll and GitHub Pages on Windows](https://www.kiltandcode.com/2020/04/30/how-to-create-a-blog-using-jekyll-and-github-pages-on-windows/)
- [Supported syntax highlighting in Jekyll pages](https://simpleit.rocks/ruby/jekyll/)
- [Jekyll themes](http://jekyllthemes.org/)
- [How to install jekyll-paginate-v2](https://dev-yakuza.posstree.com/en/jekyll/pagination-plugin/)
- [How to configure jekyll-paginate-v2](https://github.com/sverrirs/jekyll-paginate-v2/blob/master/README-GENERATOR.md)