---
layout:  post
title:   "Samba network drive"
summary: "How I configured Samba in Ubuntu to share a drive in my local network."
date:    2023-02-03 20:02:00 -0800
categories: all
---

I installed Ubuntu Server 22.04 in an old tablet and I connected a USB solid-state drive that I want to share in my local network via SMB. These are the steps I followed:

1. Installed samba. It will install all the required dependencies for you:
```
sudo apt install samba
```

1. I edited the samba configuration file as super user:

```
sudo nano /etc/samba/smb.conf
```

3. The file has lots of comments, but it has a global section, and then you add your own section. Under the global section, I did two things that are optional for you:

   a) I set the workgroup to the one I use in my local network.

   b) I limited the drive share to only one internet interface. In my case, ethernet (`eth0` in this example).

   Note: The interfaces item was originally preceded with a `;` character. You need to remove it, then make sure to add the same indentation as the rest of the lines (3 spaces in my case).

```
[global]
   workgroup = MYWORKGROUPNAME
   interfaces = 127.0.0.0/8 eth0
```

1. Next, at the very bottom, I added an entry with the name of the drive share as it will show up in other machines. Then I added the configuration options below, using the same indentation as above.

```
[MyShareName]
  comment = This is the friendly name of my share
  path = /path/to/my/shared/drive
  browsable = yes
  guest ok = yes
  read only = no
  create mask = 0777
  directory mask = 0777
  writeable = yes
  force user = myuser
  force group = myuser
```

Note that `myuser` is the user that owns the `/path/to/my/shared/drive` directory.

5. Then, you need to restart the services:

```
sudo service smbd restart
sudo service nmbd restart
```

6. Finally, go to another machine and verify that by visiting the IP address of your server sharing the drive, you can view the contents of that drive.

For example, in Windows, open a File Explorer window and, assuming the server IP address is `192.168.0.5` go to the location `\\192.168.0.5\MyShareName`.

You should be able to create, modify and delete files and folders.
